Reworked /ETC blogpost (#266)
deltachat/deltachat-pages: _posts/2019-10-16-etc-workshop.md

---

> title: People Learning how to Install Mail Servers - Delta Chat at /ETC

Author: Nice and short, understandable and welcoming title.

author: compl4xx
---

Recently, I had the chance to attend the [Eclectic Tech Carnival

> (/ETC)](https://eclectictechcarnival.org) in Athens, a feminist event about

Author: why wouldn't self-organized learning be open to women?

Reviewer: maybe women only attend if its specifically mentioned? I'm not sure about this as I'm male and I haven't investigated this issue yet.

> (/ETC)](https://eclectictechcarnival.org) in Athens, a feminist event about

Author: This adds more to the mix, of what is poor sentence structure.

> technology. It was full of self-organized learning, exploring technology in a

Author: why wouldn't self-organized learning be open to women?

> space far from the alienating IT culture.

Author: This is a judgement call possibly on part of all of the above. Neither the author or Delta Chat at large, respectively could or should be in the business of making a judgement call here. What matters to the story is it is unlike, which is preserved.

> 

Author: Mentioning participants twice is redundant, but having established a non-redundant premise; it is still in.

> 

Author: Where else would they share? To the event they brought themselves is implied.

> 

Author: I think the author is wrong tarnishing what I consider my culture, but I haven't been to this particular event, so it stands. The "I" being the operative distinction. This stopped being a description, and is now a personal story. I would change the title to "An escapade of the varieties of /ESC. - The people and Mail servers mail servers I learnt to know" or something, to be honest. But I didn't, because I had a feeling even basic editing would go awry.

> 

Author: Everyone is already referenced, no need for they.

Mostly women and nonbinary people attended, bringing a variety of skills
to share. I am used to the elitism of nerd culture -
the contrast was wild. Never did I see a learning atmosphere like that, where

> everyone could learn from each other, without fear admitting to not knowing everything.

Author: ```suggestion
everyone could learn from each other, without fear of admitting to not knowing everything.
```

> 

Author: I don't think workshops are given. Talks are. I could be wrong, but played it safe. Where else would it be, we are already at /ETC. I think "on" is better, because a workshop is thematic.

> 

Author: "me, I" is redundant.

> 

Author: Spelling error. Inconsistent with the two main ways Delta Chat writes "e-mail".

Donna and Juga conducted a workshop on installing and maintaining mail
servers - a very interesting topic for me, having installed my first own mail server
only weeks ago. The workshop was part of the effort to make [burner e-mail

> accounts](https://delta.chat/en/2018-11-17-deltaxi#new-planned-features-for-at-risk-and-other-users)

Author: The "But" isn't needed, and you could go "the main goal was however" if it was. Starting on "but" is abrupt.

> accounts](https://delta.chat/en/2018-11-17-deltaxi#new-planned-features-for-at-risk-and-other-users)

Author: Staccato sentence.

a widespread feature on more mail servers. The main goal was teaching
attendees no witchcraft is involved in managing servers (not that there would be

> anything to say against witchcraft).

Author: I don't even.

*Some people who attended /ETC - it was a lot of fun.* [(Photo:
/ETC)](https://eclectictechcarnival.org/etc/2019/athens/communications/group-photo/)

> 

Author: This is a change that can only make change for the better.
Arguably it is a judgement call on part of the 14 others.

## How Delta Chat Can Benefit People

> 14 people attended to learn more about mail servers. We helped each other out,

Author: Functionally tiring to read

sharing our experience with Delta Chat and mail servers. 

> 

Author: you could go "about the nature of", the perspective otherwise is "of".

First, Donna gave an overview of Delta Chat. There was some discussion about

> the possibilities of a messenger in the decentralized mail network, especially

Author: This could be changed around to be whom, but it doesn't fit the writing style.

> the possibilities of a messenger in the decentralized mail network, especially

Author: Why envoke "we", whos is we if different from the already present people in the discussion? So much filling.

> the possibilities of a messenger in the decentralized mail network, especially

Author: clients is not clear here. Inelegant to leave the duality at the end of a sentence like this.

> the possibiliyu of communicating with people using other e-mail applications.

Author: "With others on different" is possible, but the focus is people

> the possibiliyu of communicating with people using other e-mail applications.

Author: ```suggestion
the possibility of communicating with people using other e-mail applications.
```

The strengths of Autocrypt as an encryption standard was on display, in its
compatibility with many other e-mail clients.

> 

Author: Could go "Emphasis on burner accounts also came to light". "On", in addition to not having mentioned anything to introduce it, changes the theoretical perspective established earlier. "Emphasis was also put on" can come out of the blue, and only brings to the aforementioned, it doesn't require anything from it.

Another emphasis was that of burner accounts. Many participants were activists, and

> had to think about protecting their identities not only once. (Queer-)Feminist

Author: This is one way to split your audience. Figuratively and literally speaking.

> had to think about protecting their identities not only once. (Queer-)Feminist

Author: What is at the other side of "whether", "not"? I don't understand.

work can be dangerous, whether having to deal with violent partners,

> right-wing militants, or privacy-sensitive emotional support.

Author: If the point is bringing attention to the greater issue, judeo-christian and secondarily hinduist religion would be it.

## Burner Mail Servers in a Workshop

> 

Author: This is the style of a fairy tale.

> 

Author: should be "log in".

> 

Author: A lot of people don't like squatters, for again very good reason. I suppose this is different, and you would maybe be granted the benefit of the doubt if you pulled of this more lightly.
", and the nature of how good Wi-Fi can truly be if you don't pay for it." or similar.

Come time for more practice, folling the theory part, Donna handed out seven

> pieces of paper with login credentials. They were forvvirtual private servers

Author: ```suggestion
pieces of paper containing logins. They were for virtual private servers
```

(VPS) she had created beforehand. Everyone started logging in via SSH

> (a remote command line), finding out how the SSH command works,

Author: ```suggestion
(a remote command-line), finding out how the SSH command works,
```

struggling with the bad squat Wi-Fi.

> Juga took over from there to teach everyone how to install a mail server, and

Author: Double "team".

> Juga took over from there to teach everyone how to install a mail server, and

Author: How many people know what a pad is? If you go with "~squatting", "pad" could mean a different flat.

> Juga took over from there to teach everyone how to install a mail server, and

Author: "that's" is redundant

> Juga took over from there to teach everyone how to install a mail server, and

Author: "With" is redundant and out of place.

> Juga took over from there to teach everyone how to install a mail server, and

Author: Double "work/-ing"

> Juga took over from there to teach everyone how to install a mail server, and

Author: They are still not "mails"

> Juga took over from there to teach everyone how to install a mail server, and

Author: "with" is redundant.

what to watch out for. To get started I teamed up with a friend, as did the others.
We could look up the instructions in a pad for how to install & configure a

> postfix SMTP server - the software taking care of sending e-mails, and receiving

Author: ```suggestion
postfix SMTP server - the software sending and receiving
```

> them from other mail servers on the Internet.

Author: ```suggestion
them from and to other mail servers on the Internet.
```

> them from and to other mail servers on the Internet.

Author: ```suggestion
e-mails from and to other mail servers on the Internet.
```

Following everyone getting an SMTP server up and running, the fun part - using it to

> communicate with each other! With using Mutt on the server command-line, we

Author: ```suggestion
communicate with each other! Using Mutt on the server command-line, we
```

> sent each other e-mails to prove that it works. It was really good to see it

Author: ```suggestion
sent each other e-mails to prove functionality. It was really good to see it
```

> actually working. I didn't expect it to function for everyone so quickly.

Author: ```suggestion
actually working. I didn't expect for everyone to make such quick work of it.
```

An SMTP server is however only half that of a good mail server - you also need an
IMAP server, so Delta Chat can download the received e-mails from the server.
We installed Dovecot for that, to be able to use the mail server with Delta Chat.

In the end we played around with it a bit more. Taking a look at the logs to
get some practice maintaining a server. The installation is the quick

> part, as mail servers also need maintenance love.

Author: ```suggestion
part, as mail servers also need, and got, maintenance love.
```

> ![A command line, projected on the

Author: ```suggestion
![A command-line, projected on the
```

wall.](../assets/blog/20191022-delta-chat-etc-workshop-projector-command-line.png)

*Learning how to look at the running processes during the workshop.*

> 

Author: This is shallow.

## So What Comes Next?

> 

Author: "Unfortunately" is redundant, time-permitting already implying as much.

> 

Author: Another starting "But" in the lineup.

> 

Author: This "e.g." does not read well.

Time did not permit trying out the mail server with Delta Chat,
though with the feedback the workshop got, maybe next time. The workshop
is definitely going to take place more often, poised for the upcoming
[Chaos Communication Congress](https://events.ccc.de) among others.

> 

Author: Not sure this should be "accounts", maybe "account"?

> 

Author: Not "E-Mail"

> 

Author: "on a button" is implied by tapping

Given more time come next workshop, setting up the burner accounts API is on the
list of things to do too. This is the part of the mail server allowing creation of
a temporary e-mail account with a single request. This means only having to tap
a single button in Delta Chat to create an account, sometime in the future.

> 

Author: Actually everyone knows now, nothing actually needed to be specific to feminists. We are playing from home reading this. Add some links to make that more of an enjoyable experience.

> 

Author: Do you know this? What story are you telling?

It is not much effort to install a mail server. Even following the very first steps

> on the command line; a beautiful sight.

Author: Duality intentional.

> 

Author: I like your angle here, positive. "The" is arguably redundant, and I would remove it as I presume it was automated in the clearing of the VPS.

> 

Author: Double "own", triple referenced self (small problem) with "we".

> 

Author: Superfluous "And". Why does this start with "And"? It is still a fairy tale.

Unfortunately servers had to be deleted afterwards - just more
motivation to set up our own outside the control of others ;)
Decentralization meets empowerment.

![A person holding a DIY Faraday bag with "cyberpunk is now" written on
it.](../assets/blog/20191021-delta-chat-etc-workshop-faraday-bag.jpg)

> 

Author: Love the enthusiasm, it carries through.
